pages/ballot/create-identifier.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Create your first identifier

After completing the onboarding process, your next step is to create the first KERI Autonomic Identifier (AID). You will use this identifier to sign and verify votes in Cardano Ballot.

To create a new identifier, press the "Add an Identifier" button or the plus button in the top right corner of the application. This action will take you to the "Add an Identifier" screen.

In this menu, create a new identifier by adding a name to it. Choose a name that helps you remember the identifier’s purpose. For voting on the Cardano Ballot, select "Individual" as the AID type. The default AID is a transferable, non-ephemeral identifier.

<Callout type="info">
  For more information on KERI AIDs click on the information icon next to the
  AID type text.
</Callout>

Once you have entered all the details for the identifier, click the "Create Identifier" button at the bottom of the screen to create it.

After generating the identifier, it will appear in the deck of identifiers in the Identity tab of the app. Click on the card to access all the details of the identifier.

Commit message:

docs(Alpha Program): Included Login page and improved texts

pages/ballot/create-identifier.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Create your first identifier

After completing the onboarding process, your next step is to create your first identifier. You will use this identifier to sign and verify votes in Cardano Ballot.

To create a new identifier, press the "Add an Identifier" button or the plus button in the top right corner of the app.

Choose a name that helps you remember the identifier’s purpose. For voting on Cardano Ballot, select "Individual" as the identifier type. Voting using group identifiers is not yet supported for Cardano Ballot.

<Callout type="info">
  For more information on identifiers click on the information icon next to the
  AID type text.
</Callout>

After generating the identifier, it will appear in the deck of identifiers in the Identifiers tab of the app. Click on the card to access all the details of the identifier.

<Callout type="warning">
  Due to on-going GDPR considerations users participating in the Alpha program
  will not be able to leverage the on-chain verification service that is
  available to stake address-based voters. In order to provide on-chain
  verification, Alpha user’s Key Event Logs will need to be written on-chain and
  the format and process for Keri on Cardano are still under development.
</Callout>
