content/selfdeployment.mdx, before:

# Self Deployment

## Introduction

We support two container-based methods in order to self-host the services needed to back Veridian wallet:
- A more traditional, single-host Docker Compose installation.
- A more customizable one for reliability and scalability — using a Helm chart to deploy to Kubernetes.

In any case, we try to make it as easy and simple to go from zero to orchestrating all the services and serving them behind HTTPS.
This keeps Web2 compatibility, although of course, the end-goal is to get rid of this need while enabling ToIP (Trust over IP) using KERI. 

## Common pre-requisites

- You will need a registered DNS domain. We reference it as `PUBLIC_DOMAIN` but it's OK as long as it's reachable from your wallet app and the server(s) you will be deploying to.
  - At least these DNS records under this domain that resolve to the cloud instance or load-balancer that will be serving the services:
    - `cred-issuance`
    - `cred-issuance-ui`
    - `keria`
    - `keria-boot`
    - `keria-ext`
    - `witness-0` to `witness-5` (6 records in total)
- A cloud instance or k8s cluster with enough resources to run the services. We recommend _at a minimum_ 4vCPU, 8GB of RAM and 20GB of storage to start with.

## Docker Compose guide

### Pre-requisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed.
- A cloud instance with a public IP address.
  - DNS records described above resolving to this IP address.
  - TCP ports 80 and 443 open.
- A valid email address for Let's Encrypt HTTPS certificate management (although they will be expedited automatically).

### Installation

1. Clone the repository and enter the directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/cardano-foundation/veridian-wallet.git
cd veridian-wallet
```
2. Copy the `.env.production.traefik` file to `.env.production`:
```bash
cp .env.production.traefik .env.production
```
3. Edit the `.env.production` file and set the `PUBLIC_DOMAIN` and `ACME_ADMIN_EMAIL` variables.
4. Initialize witnesses' configuration:
```bash
docker compose \
    --profile witness-init \
    --env-file .env.production \
    -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
    up
```
5. Boot up witnesses:
```bash
docker compose \
    --profile witness \
    --env-file .env.production \
    -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
    up -d
```
6. Initialize KERIA's configuration by following these steps:

    a. Generate a fresh `KERIA_PASSCODE` and update the value in the `.env.production` file:
    ```bash
    KERIA_PASSCODE=$(docker run -it --rm cardanofoundation/cf-keria-passcode-gen | sed 's/\r//g')
    sed -i "s/^KERIA_PASSCODE=.*/KERIA_PASSCODE=$KERIA_PASSCODE/" .env.production
    ```

    b. Gather witnesses' OOBIs and check that they all (0-5) look correct:
    ```bash
    export KERIA_IURLS=$(INITIAL_PORT=5642; for wit in $(seq 0 5); do OOBI=$(docker compose -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml --env-file .env.production logs witness-$wit 2>/dev/null | grep Witness.wit | awk '{print $NF}'); echo "http://witness-$wit:$(( INITIAL_PORT + wit ))/oobi/${OOBI}/controller?role=witness"; done | xargs echo)
    ```
    ```bash
    echo $KERIA_IURLS
    ```

    c. Setup KERIA's configuration:
    ```bash
    docker compose \
        --profile keria-init \
        --env-file .env.production \
        -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
        up
    ```
7. Boot up the rest of the services:
```bash
docker compose \
    --profile production \
    --env-file .env.production \
    -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
    up -d
```

It may take a few minutes for the certificates to be issued and put in place, and for the services to be fully operational, but at this point you should be able to access the services at URLs like `https://cred-issuance-ui.$PUBLIC_DOMAIN`. 


## Helm guide

### Pre-requisites

- A Kubernetes cluster with an ingress controller capable of handling TLS termination for the chosen `PUBLIC_DOMAIN`.
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) installed.
  - `kubectl` configured to access the k8s cluster.
- [helm](https://helm.sh) installed.

### Installation

This guide will describe the installation using our provided installation script.
It will make the installation process easier than manually applying the Helm chart!

In case you want to do it manually, you can find the Helm chart source and documentation [here](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/cf-helm-charts/tree/main/charts/cf-idw).

1. **Download AND review the script**:
   ```sh
   curl -so /tmp/helm-install.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cardano-foundation/cf-helm-charts/refs/heads/main/charts/cf-idw/helm-install.sh
   ```

2. **Execute the script** with the required environment variables:
   ```sh
   export NAMESPACE=cf-idw-services
   export WITNESS_COUNT=6  # Number of witnesses to deploy
   export PUBLIC_DOMAINS=3x4mpl3.com,example.com  # Comma-separated list of public domains where the deployment will be served from
   bash /tmp/helm-install.sh
   ```

3. **Get the full list of URLs** if you already have an ingress controller managing SSL certificates:
   ```sh
   for host in $(kubectl get ingress -n ${NAMESPACE} -o jsonpath='{.items[*].spec.rules[*].host}'); do
     echo https://$host
   done | sort
   ```

Commit message:

Update selfdeployment instructions for Helm script
Added important notes about reviewing and adapting the Helm installation command before executing the script.

Probably the most effective solution is to add a variable to the `helm-install.sh` script for referencing the chart location.

content/selfdeployment.mdx, after:

# Self Deployment

## Introduction

We support two container-based methods in order to self-host the services needed to back Veridian wallet:
- A more traditional, single-host Docker Compose installation.
- A more customizable one for reliability and scalability — using a Helm chart to deploy to Kubernetes.

In any case, we try to make it as easy and simple to go from zero to orchestrating all the services and serving them behind HTTPS.
This keeps Web2 compatibility, although of course, the end-goal is to get rid of this need while enabling ToIP (Trust over IP) using KERI. 

## Common pre-requisites

- You will need a registered DNS domain. We reference it as `PUBLIC_DOMAIN` but it's OK as long as it's reachable from your wallet app and the server(s) you will be deploying to.
  - At least these DNS records under this domain that resolve to the cloud instance or load-balancer that will be serving the services:
    - `cred-issuance`
    - `cred-issuance-ui`
    - `keria`
    - `keria-boot`
    - `keria-ext`
    - `witness-0` to `witness-5` (6 records in total)
- A cloud instance or k8s cluster with enough resources to run the services. We recommend _at a minimum_ 4vCPU, 8GB of RAM and 20GB of storage to start with.

## Docker Compose guide

### Pre-requisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed.
- A cloud instance with a public IP address.
  - DNS records described above resolving to this IP address.
  - TCP ports 80 and 443 open.
- A valid email address for Let's Encrypt HTTPS certificate management (although they will be expedited automatically).

### Installation

1. Clone the repository and enter the directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/cardano-foundation/veridian-wallet.git
cd veridian-wallet
```
2. Copy the `.env.production.traefik` file to `.env.production`:
```bash
cp .env.production.traefik .env.production
```
3. Edit the `.env.production` file and set the `PUBLIC_DOMAIN` and `ACME_ADMIN_EMAIL` variables.
4. Initialize witnesses' configuration:
```bash
docker compose \
    --profile witness-init \
    --env-file .env.production \
    -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
    up
```
5. Boot up witnesses:
```bash
docker compose \
    --profile witness \
    --env-file .env.production \
    -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
    up -d
```
6. Initialize KERIA's configuration by following these steps:

    a. Generate a fresh `KERIA_PASSCODE` and update the value in the `.env.production` file:
    ```bash
    KERIA_PASSCODE=$(docker run -it --rm cardanofoundation/cf-keria-passcode-gen | sed 's/\r//g')
    sed -i "s/^KERIA_PASSCODE=.*/KERIA_PASSCODE=$KERIA_PASSCODE/" .env.production
    ```

    b. Gather witnesses' OOBIs and check that they all (0-5) look correct:
    ```bash
    export KERIA_IURLS=$(INITIAL_PORT=5642; for wit in $(seq 0 5); do OOBI=$(docker compose -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml --env-file .env.production logs witness-$wit 2>/dev/null | grep Witness.wit | awk '{print $NF}'); echo "http://witness-$wit:$(( INITIAL_PORT + wit ))/oobi/${OOBI}/controller?role=witness"; done | xargs echo)
    ```
    ```bash
    echo $KERIA_IURLS
    ```

    c. Setup KERIA's configuration:
    ```bash
    docker compose \
        --profile keria-init \
        --env-file .env.production \
        -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
        up
    ```
7. Boot up the rest of the services:
```bash
docker compose \
    --profile production \
    --env-file .env.production \
    -f docker-compose.production.traefik.yaml \
    up -d
```

It may take a few minutes for the certificates to be issued and put in place, and for the services to be fully operational, but at this point you should be able to access the services at URLs like `https://cred-issuance-ui.$PUBLIC_DOMAIN`. 


## Helm guide

### Pre-requisites

- A Kubernetes cluster with an ingress controller capable of handling TLS termination for the chosen `PUBLIC_DOMAIN`.
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) installed.
  - `kubectl` configured to access the k8s cluster.
- [helm](https://helm.sh) installed.

### Installation

This guide will describe the installation using our provided installation script.
It will make the installation process easier than manually applying the Helm chart!

In case you want to do it manually, you can find the Helm chart source and documentation [here](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/cf-helm-charts/tree/main/charts/cf-idw).

1. **Download AND review the script**:
   ```sh
   curl -so /tmp/helm-install.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cardano-foundation/cf-helm-charts/refs/heads/main/charts/cf-idw/helm-install.sh
   ```
  **Important**: Before executing the script, review it and adapt the Helm installation command. The script contains a command that references a local chart directory, but you need to change it to reference the remote chart repository:
  ```sh
  helm install \
     ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} \
     cardano-foundation/cf-idw \
     --create-namespace \
     --namespace ${NAMESPACE} \
     --set ingressTLDs="{$PUBLIC_DOMAINS}" \
     --set witness.witnessCount=${WITNESS_COUNT}
  ```

2. **Execute the script** with the required environment variables:
   ```sh
   export NAMESPACE=cf-idw-services
   export WITNESS_COUNT=6  # Number of witnesses to deploy
   export PUBLIC_DOMAINS=3x4mpl3.com,example.com  # Comma-separated list of public domains where the deployment will be served from
   bash /tmp/helm-install.sh
   ```

3. **Get the full list of URLs** if you already have an ingress controller managing SSL certificates:
   ```sh
   for host in $(kubectl get ingress -n ${NAMESPACE} -o jsonpath='{.items[*].spec.rules[*].host}'); do
     echo https://$host
   done | sort
   ```
