content/protocols/identifierbasics.mdx, before:


import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Basics to KERI identifiers

Before delving into creating your own identifiers, it's important to understand how they are structured in KERI, and how the security is maintained.

## Identifier types
**Non-transferable:** The most basic form of a KERI identifier is a non-transferable identifier, which is an identifier that cannot be rotated after being created.
Non-transferable identifiers should only be used for ephemeral limited-use identifiers, such as tunneling communications for metadata privacy like in the [Trust Spanning Protocol](https://trustoverip.github.io/tswg-tsp-specification/).

Typically, non-transferable identifiers can be represented by just their public key in CESR.
Ed25519 public keys in CESR start with the `B` code in the text domain.
It's possible to create a non-transferable identifier using a Key Event Log too, but the use cases are limited.

<Callout type="info">
  This [Github discussion](https://github.com/WebOfTrust/keripy/discussions/612) is a good reference for the CESR 2.0 codes.
</Callout>

**Transferable:** Identifiers that are meant to be long-lived and represent a person, entity or machine should be transferable, which means they can be rotated.

At any given time, transferable identifier contains 2 sets of keys:
- Current signing key set
- Rotation key set

The sets will contain more than 1 key for multi-sig identifiers.
A rotation event uses the rotation keys to update these sets of keys.

## Key Event Logs
From here on, transferable is assumed when we mention identifiers, for brevity.
An identifier is created by generating keys from entropy, and creating an inception event.

**Inception:** The inception event is a CESR data structure that contains public key information, witness identifiers, thresholds and more.
An inception event is only valid if signed by the current signing private keys (a threshold amount in the case of a multi-sig identifier).

This type of identifier is known as a Self-Certifying Identifier because control over the identifier is established using crytography alone.
KERI extends this idea into an Autonomic Identifier, where the Self-Certifying Identifier is autonomous in its ability to update its key material over time.

Each identifier has a Key Event Log, or KEL for short, which is a hash-chained data structure that shows the history of the identifier; essentially a mini blockchain.
Each KEL starts with an inception event.

**Events:** A KEL has 2 types of events:
- Establishment events
- Non-establishment events

Establishment events change the key state, whereas non-establishment events do not.
The inception event is an establishment event.

Non-establishment events allow you to anchor arbitrary data in the KEL to sign it, such as issuing a credential.
An interaction event is the more common name for this type of event.

You can also use your identifier to create normal signatures which are not part of the KEL, but it should only be used in ephemeral, low-risk situations such as logging into a system.
Any non-ephemeral signatures which we will need to verify any time in the future, or which are sensitive from a security perspective should be done using interaction events.

Note! An establishment event can also anchor arbitrary data.

## Pre-rotation

A shortcoming of other decentralized identifier systems is that the current signing key is used to rotate to the new key.
However, keys used to sign anything become exposed over time, whether through their environment or cryptanalysis.
Once the key is lost, the identifier is lost.

KERI separates signing keys and rotation keys to ensure that a compromise of signing keys does not result in a lost identifier.
A rotation event for an identifier is only valid if signed using the rotation keys, which were committed to in the previous establishment event.

For each rotation event, it must be signed by a threshold number of rotation keys.
The rotation threshold can be different to the current signing threshold.
For any rotation key that is used in a rotation event, the public key of the rotation key must replace the corresponding current signing key.
This phases out old keys in favour of rotation keys, and new rotation keys get added.

**Quantum security:** It even goes a step further, and completely hides the rotation key until it's needed to verify a new rotation event.
A KERI event never contains public keys of the current rotation key set, but rather a hash or digest of each of the public keys.

This protects the keys in the event of a quantum event, and allows a controller to regain control of their identifier, and if available, rotate to a quantum secure key pair in the future.
In fact, for high security environments, an identifier can be configured to only allow establishment events, so every event in the KEL would be an inception event or rotation event.

## Witnesses and watchers

The controller of identifier is the primary root of trust of that identifier.
Each event in the KEL is only valid if it's signed by a threshold amount of keys from the controller.

KERI has a concept known as witnesses, which can serve as the secondary root of trust for identifiers.
Effectively, you can designate a set of witnesses to "witness" your KEL event for it to be valid.
There is also a threshold for witness signatures, and a rotation event can change the set of witnesses and threshold.

<Callout type="info">
  Another use for non-transferable identifiers are witnesses.
  A witness identifier isn't necessarily meant to be ephemeral, but in case a witness is compromised, any identifiers using that witness can issue a rotation event which rotates out the compromised witness and replaces them with a new one.
  This avoids the need for witnesses having witnesses, and an infinite recursion problem.
  It also aligns with KERI's design to be minimally sufficient.
</Callout>

The most basic function of witnesses is to ensure there is a high availability layer to distribute your KEL updates to.
This helps protect controllers so verifiers get access to the most up to date version of the key state of an identifier.

On the other hand, a controller could be malicious themselves and attempt to show different forked versions of a KEL to different verifiers, which in KERI is called duplicity.
Watchers are components which track KEL updates for identifiers on the network, and can help detect key compromise or duplicity.
Watchers should "share notes" with each other to spot for inconsistencies and broadcast issues.

All in all, this ensures KEL updates are distributed across the network as quickly as possible and aims to prevent eclipse attacks.

<Callout type="info">
  Witnesses can be configured with 2-factor authentication to prevent an attacker who steals your rotation keys (which should be hard already!) from creating a fully witnessed rotation event.
  However, given the possibility of a legitimate controller losing access to all witnesses, the entire witness set may be changed in a rotation event.

  To ensure the 2-factor authentication is still useful, it's on the roadmap to ensure watchers are suspicious when a controller suddenly changes many witnesses to give the legitimate controller time to react.
</Callout>

Watcher integration with KERIA is still pending.

Commit message:

feat: final suggestions from Jaime

content/protocols/identifierbasics.mdx, after:


import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Basics to KERI identifiers

Before delving into creating your own identifiers, it's important to understand how they are structured in KERI, and how the security is maintained.

## Identifier types
**Non-transferable:** The most basic form of a KERI identifier is a non-transferable identifier, which is an identifier that cannot be rotated after being created.
Non-transferable identifiers should only be used for ephemeral limited-use identifiers, such as tunneling communications for metadata privacy like in the [Trust Spanning Protocol](https://trustoverip.github.io/tswg-tsp-specification/).

Typically, non-transferable identifiers can be represented by just their public key in CESR.
Ed25519 public keys in CESR start with the `B` code in the text domain.
It's possible to create a non-transferable identifier using a Key Event Log too, but the use cases are limited.

<Callout type="info">
  This [Github discussion](https://github.com/WebOfTrust/keripy/discussions/612) is a good reference for the CESR 2.0 codes.
</Callout>

**Transferable:** Identifiers that are meant to be long-lived and represent a person, entity or machine should be transferable, which means they can be rotated.

At any given time, transferable identifier contains 2 sets of keys:
- Current signing key set
- Rotation key set

The sets will contain more than 1 key for multi-sig identifiers.
A rotation event uses the rotation keys to update these sets of keys.

## Key Event Logs
From here on, transferable is assumed when we mention identifiers, for brevity.
An identifier is created by generating keys from entropy, and creating an inception event.

**Inception:** The inception event is a CESR data structure that contains public key information, witness identifiers, thresholds and more.
An inception event is only valid if signed by the current signing private keys (a threshold amount in the case of a multi-sig identifier).

This type of identifier is known as a Self-Certifying Identifier because control over the identifier is established using crytography alone.
KERI extends this idea into an Autonomic Identifier, where the Self-Certifying Identifier is autonomous in its ability to update its key material over time.

Each identifier has a Key Event Log, or KEL for short, which is a hash-chained data structure that shows the history of the identifier; essentially a mini blockchain.
Each KEL starts with an inception event.

**Events:** A KEL has 2 types of events:
- Establishment events
- Non-establishment events

Establishment events change the key state, whereas non-establishment events do not.
The inception event is an establishment event.

Non-establishment events allow you to anchor arbitrary data in the KEL to sign it, such as issuing a credential.
An interaction event is the more common name for this type of event.

You can also use your identifier to create normal signatures which are not part of the KEL, but it should only be used in ephemeral, low-risk situations such as logging into a system.
Any non-ephemeral signatures which we will need to verify any time in the future, or which are sensitive from a security perspective should be done using interaction events.

Note! An establishment event can also anchor arbitrary data.

<Callout type="info">
  If arbitrary data is anchored in a KEL, a reference to the KEL event by sequence number can help a verifier find the anchoring of the data.
  Their KERI agent will ensure that each KERI event up until that point is fully verified.
</Callout>

## Pre-rotation

A shortcoming of other decentralized identifier systems is that the current signing key is used to rotate to the new key.
However, keys used to sign anything become exposed over time, whether through their environment or cryptanalysis.
Once the key is lost, the identifier is lost.

KERI separates signing keys and rotation keys to ensure that a compromise of signing keys does not result in a lost identifier.
A rotation event for an identifier is only valid if signed using the rotation keys, which were committed to in the previous establishment event.

For each rotation event, it must be signed by a threshold number of rotation keys.
The rotation threshold can be different to the current signing threshold.
For any rotation key that is used in a rotation event, the public key of the rotation key must replace the corresponding current signing key.
This phases out old keys in favour of rotation keys, and new rotation keys get added.

**Quantum security:** It even goes a step further, and completely hides the rotation key until it's needed to verify a new rotation event.
A KERI event never contains public keys of the current rotation key set, but rather a hash or digest of each of the public keys.

This protects the keys in the event of a quantum event, and allows a controller to regain control of their identifier, and if available, rotate to a quantum secure key pair in the future.
In fact, for high security environments, an identifier can be configured to only allow establishment events, so every event in the KEL would be an inception event or a rotation event — this effectively means every interaction from the identifier uses a different key pair.

## Witnesses and watchers

The controller of identifier is the primary root of trust of that identifier.
Each event in the KEL is only valid if it's signed by a threshold amount of keys from the controller.

KERI has a concept known as witnesses, which can serve as the secondary root of trust for identifiers.
Effectively, you can designate a set of witnesses to "witness" your KEL event for it to be valid.
There is also a threshold for witness signatures, and a rotation event can change the set of witnesses and threshold.

<Callout type="info">
  Another use for non-transferable identifiers are witnesses.
  A witness identifier isn't necessarily meant to be ephemeral, but in case a witness is compromised, any identifiers using that witness can issue a rotation event which rotates out the compromised witness and replaces them with a new one.
  This avoids the need for witnesses having witnesses, and an infinite recursion problem.
  It also aligns with KERI's design to be minimally sufficient.
</Callout>

The most basic function of witnesses is to ensure there is a high availability layer to distribute your KEL updates to.
This helps protect controllers so verifiers get access to the most up to date version of the key state of an identifier.

On the other hand, a controller could be malicious themselves and attempt to show different forked versions of a KEL to different verifiers, which in KERI is called duplicity.
Watchers are components which track KEL updates for identifiers on the network, and can help detect key compromise or duplicity.
Watchers should "share notes" with each other to spot for inconsistencies and broadcast issues.

All in all, this ensures KEL updates are distributed across the network as quickly as possible and aims to prevent eclipse attacks.

<Callout type="info">
  Witnesses can be configured with 2-factor authentication to prevent an attacker who steals your rotation keys (which should be hard already!) from creating a fully witnessed rotation event.
  However, given the possibility of a legitimate controller losing access to all witnesses, the entire witness set may be changed in a rotation event.

  To ensure the 2-factor authentication is still useful, it's on the roadmap to ensure watchers are suspicious when a controller suddenly changes many witnesses to give the legitimate controller time to react.
</Callout>

Watcher integration with KERIA is still pending.
