pages/index.mdx, before:

# Welcome to the Identity Wallet Documentation

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for the Alpha program of the Identity Wallet. This guide is designed to help you navigate through the various features and functionalities of the Identity Wallet, ensuring a smooth and efficient experience.

The documentation is divided into two main parts:

## Tutorials

This section contains step-by-step guides to help you with the initial setup and use of the Identity Wallet to vote in Cardano Ballot 2024. You will find instructions for app installation and onboarding for both iOS and Android.

To get started, visit the [App Installation page](ballot/install.mdx).

## Want to learn more?

This section covers other aspects of the Identity Wallet beyond the scope of Cardano Ballot 2024. Topics include creating a group multi-sig identifier and receiving and presenting credentials.

Explore further details in the [Want to learn more page](more).

## Support

Looking for more information or support, contact us at [Discord](https://discord.gg/Wh25yBqwpz) or via email [identity.solutions@cardanofoundation.org](mailto:identity.solutions@cardanofoundation.org)

Commit message:

docs: expanded and reorganised other sections (#3)
* docs: expanded and reorganised other sections

* docs: be more specific on rareevo cred

pages/index.mdx, after:

# Welcome to the Identity Wallet Documentation

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for the Alpha program of the Identity Wallet.
This guide is designed to help you navigate through the various features and functionalities of the Identity Wallet, ensuring a smooth and efficient experience.

## Cardano Ballot Voting 

This section contains step-by-step guides to help you with the initial setup and use of the Identity Wallet to vote in Cardano Ballot 2024. You will find instructions for app installation and onboarding for both iOS and Android.

To get started, visit the [App Installation page](ballot/install.mdx).

## Want to learn more?

The other sections cover other aspects of the Identity Wallet beyond onboarding and voting in the ballot.
This includes general information as well as some walkthroughs such as receiving and presenting credentials.

## Support

Looking for more information or support, contact us at [Discord](https://discord.gg/Wh25yBqwpz) or via email [identity.solutions@cardanofoundation.org](mailto:identity.solutions@cardanofoundation.org)
